Now let's turn our attention to writing test cases in Spring and
review the support that Spring provides for testing the various
components of a Spring Boot web service.
The examples in this course all use Spring Boot,
which is the modern way to build Spring applications in Spring 5,
and Spring provides robust support for writing test cases.
First it provides the SpringBootTest annotation,
which, when combined with the SpringExtension annotation,
loads your full application context into your tests and manages
that Spring application context as your tests run.
Next, one of the challenges in testing web services is testing your controller.
You can certainly test your controller as a plain old Java class,
but the role of a controller is to translate web requests into web responses,
so it makes sense to test your controller using a web request paradigm.
Spring's MockMvc class provides robust support for testing your controller
using a web request and validating the HTTP response,
including the response code, HTTP headers,
and validating the contents of your response body.
This course dives deep into MockMvc and not only explains how to use it,
but also walks through its various interfaces and classes so that
you'll understand how to use it effectively.
Finally,
Spring provides tight integration with Mockito through its MockBean annotation.
The MockBean annotation allows you to define Mock Spring-managed beans
will get autowired into your application context by simply defining it
in your test class with this annotation,
and then configuring its behavior.
In addition to Spring's built-in support for JUnit,
we'll employ a set of third-party extensions for managing back-end resources.
First,
we'll use DbUnit to pre-populate a SQL database
from a YAML file before tests run,
and then clean up the database when the tests complete.
This allows us to write test cases against a repository
class using a known set of good data.
Next, we'll build a custom extension to do something similar for MongoDB,
namely, pre-populate a MongoDB collection from a JSON file before a test run,
and then drop the collection when the test completes.
Finally, we'll use WireMock to simulate responses from a third-part API.
We'll update our service's properties file to redirect it to an embedded
WireMock server and configure the WireMock server to return a known set
of responses for various web service calls.
As I said earlier,
this course assumes that you have an understanding of test-driven
development and have written JUnit 5 test cases,
but if it's new to you, don't worry; throughout the modules in this course,
we'll walk through how to write JUnit 5 test cases extensively,
and the next module demonstrates how to add a test case following
a proper test-driven development methodology.
The modules in this course have pre-built Spring Boot applications,
so let's walk through setting up a new Spring Boot
application using the start.spring .io website,
and then review how to add JUnit 5 support to a project.
Navigate to start.spring .io to access the Spring Initializr.
The Spring Initializr allows us to set up a new Spring Boot project
with whatever dependencies our application requires.
We can choose to use Maven or Gradle as our build tool,
Java, Kotlin, or Groovy as our programming language,
and we can specify the version of Spring Boot that we want to use.
For this example, we're going to use Maven,
Java, and the latest version of Spring Boot,
which is 2.1 .1 as of this recording.
Now enter a Group name for your project,
such as com.globomantics, and an artifact name,
such as exampleservice.
Click on the Switch to full version link to show all of the
dependencies that we can choose from.
For this example,
we're only going to select the web dependency in the Web
section to include Spring MVC and Tomcat.
For the next module, we'll also include the H2 database and JBDC dependencies,
and for the following module,
we'll include the MongoDB and Embedded MongoDB dependencies.
Scroll back to the top of the page and click on the Generate Project button.
The Spring Initializr will generate a zip file for you that has a
preconfigured Maven POM file with all of our dependencies.
Download this file, decompress it, and open it in your favorite IDE.
The Maven POM file that the Spring Initializr generated for us
includes two dependencies: spring-boot-starter-web,
which brings in Spring MVC and Tomcat, and spring-boot-starter-test,
which brings in Spring's testing code, JUnit 4.12,
Mockito, and Hamcrest, among other dependencies.
In order to use JUnit 5 in our project,
we need to include the following additional dependencies: junit-jupiter-api,
which is used for writing JUnit 5 test cases and extensions,
junit-jupiter-engine,
which is JUnit's test engine implementation that we'll need
when we run our test from a Maven build,
and junit-jupiter-params,
which provides support for parameterized tests if you choose to use them.
With this set of dependencies, you'll be ready to start writing JUnit 5 test cases.